---
title: About Me
---
Hi I'm Rachel Goth, a clinical hypnotherapist based in South London. Working as a hypnotherapist I've noticed a common thread through all of my clients. Whether they’ve come for confidence, sports performance or weight loss the first thing they all need to learn is how to relax. So using a combination of relaxation techniques, mindfulness and hypnosis I help people to feel relaxed more of the time and so stressed and anxious less of the time. It's amazing how many things aren't a problem any more when you find you don't feel stressed or anxious about them.

When we’re stressed we don’t have access to our higher thinking. Funnily enough that doesn’t help us to find solutions to our problems. Two people can live the exact same life, one happy, the other miserable. I’ll bet you the miserable one isn’t relaxed. When we’re relaxed we’re more intelligent and we have access to all of our wisdom. 

I never used to understand the thing about accepting where you are before you can change. Acceptance seemed like giving up. But now I see it as relaxing with it, detaching your emotions from it so you can think more clearly and have a better chance of finding the path out. With busy lives, work being able to contact you at all hours and social media ramming people’s ‘perfect’ lives down your throat, it seems there’s never been a more stressful time to be alive. But when we relax and step back we can see the nonsense for what it is and concentrate on the important stuff. Not to mention long term stress is bad for our health (blood pressure, heart attacks, digestion) and a factor in depression. 

I worked as a graphic designer in web agencies for many years before moving on to explore lots of careers from neon light designer to jewellery designer. It wasn’t until I discovered hypnotherapy that I started on the path to combining my creativity with helping others in a way that I find fulfilling. Through my hypnotherapy training and working with clients I’ve used many different ways to help people relax. For a flavour of how I can help you I recommend you check out my blog. You’ll find lots of tips there that you can implement for yourself right now.