---
title: Performance
order: 5
---
Do you have a phobia of public speaking or performing? Even though there's no physical danger involved does your body and mind react as if you're presenting to a pack of hungry wild dogs with a scent for blood? Can you imagine how life with be different without that old anxiety? How much more smoothly will presenting be when you feel calmer, more comfortable and focussed? How much more pleasant will it be to feel excitement before you go on stage rather than fear? To be in the moment, savouring the experience rather than second guessing what everyone thinks? To be more forgiving of your mistakes and even find the funny side of things?<!--more-->

Do you worry about forgetting your words, tripping up or blushing only to find it's a self fulfilling prophecy?  Whether it's a fear of speaking in front of others, performing on stage or singing at the front of the choir performance anxiety can affect your life. Whether that is through holding you back at work, stopping you from doing things you'd like to, stealing your enjoyment of activities or causing you to live in anxious dread. If you're having difficulty dealing with it on your own then hypnosis can help.

For some reason your subconscious has identified public speaking or performing as a dangerous activity. It's looked at something that actually is dangerous then looked at performing and called 'Snap!'. When it's making you blush or panic it's trying to do you a favour by keeping you away from something it feels will do you harm. And when it makes you so anxious that you do trip up or forget your words then it feels even more vindicated in it's opinion. Hypnosis can help you to change how you feel about performing by changing the associations your subconscious has with it. Once the association is broken you can be more relaxed in those situations because as well as knowing it's not dangerous you can feel it too.
